Loan Status Prediction This project focuses on predicting the status of
loan applications using various machine learning algorithms. The goal is
to accurately determine whether a loan will be approved or not, based on
the provided data. Project Overview \* Data Manipulation: Utilized
pandas to extract, clean, and manipulate the dataset. This included
handling missing values, removing duplicates, and ensuring the data was
in a usable format. \* Class Imbalance Handling: Applied oversampling
using imblearn.oversampling to balance the dataset. This step was
crucial to prevent the model from being biased towards the majority
class (non-default loans). \* Feature Scaling: Implemented feature
scaling using StandardScaler from Scikit-learn to normalize the
features, ensuring that they contribute equally to the model\'s
performance. \* Model Training: Trained multiple machine learning
models, including: \* Support Vector Machine (SVM) \* Random Forest \*
Decision Tree \* Naive Bayes \* After evaluating the models\'
performances, the Random Forest model was identified as the
best-performing model in terms of accuracy. \* Cross-Validation:
Conducted cross-validation on the Random Forest model to assess the
range of its accuracy and ensure its reliability. \* Hyperparameter
Tuning: Performed hyperparameter tuning to further optimize the Random
Forest model\'s accuracy. \* Model Evaluation: The project concludes
with a Confusion Matrix for the Random Forest model, providing insights
into its performance on the test data. Libraries Used \* pandas: For
data extraction, cleaning, and manipulation. \* NumPy: For numerical
operations and handling arrays. \* Scikit-learn: For feature scaling,
model training, cross-validation, hyperparameter tuning, and evaluating
models. \* imblearn: Specifically for imblearn.oversampling to handle
class imbalance. \* Matplotlib/Seaborn: (If applicable) For visualizing
data distributions and model performance metrics.
